>> Spencer Schneidenbach: It would be a
mistake not to at least touch on security
and talk about it a little bit.
So I refactored my 4-Z-final project
to add in some security concerns, and
we'll go through and we'll tweak and
we'll test with them.
But I want to first talk
about security at a base.
So you have two major types that
ASP.NET Core is concerned with.
Which is, authentication, making sure
that you have a valid username and
password, and you are who you say you are,
and then authorization.
Just because I can walk into a Walmart
doesn't mean that I can go to
the employees-only section, right?
I'm not authorized.
I'm not an employee at Walmart.
So we're going to talk
through just a few things.
We're going to talk through what
are JSON web tokens or JWTs.
We're gonna talk about the stuff built
into ASP.NET Core that allow you to add
security.
And really you can do it
in a very fine-grained way,
in a very powerful way,
and very simply as well.
We'll talk about common authorization
patterns for ASP.NET Core APIs and
a not good Implementation.
Not good because it is not production.
It's not code that you would
run in production, but for
the purposes of demonstration,
it will get the point across.
JSON web token is a URL
safe means of representing
claims to be transferred
between two parties.
That's a lot of fancy words for saying,
I have a token that has information in it.
And I want to present that to the server
in a way that the server can verify and
not only make sure that
I'm not scamming them,
it includes what's called
a signature verification.
To make sure that I just
didn't make this up.
The server will verify that independently
to make sure that that token is valid.
It also has a payload,
which contains the claim.
So you'll see it in this format.
These are what they look like.
You'll see that the header
is one base 64 string.
You see that there's a dot between it.
It's got the body, and
then it's got the signature as well.
And the fun thing about these
things is that they can be decoded.
So you can use a tool like JWT.IO,
which we are going to go to.
You're gonna see when I paste this code
in, I've got nothing, I paste it in,
and now you can see that we can decode
that data and see what's going on in here.
In this case,
our claims that we're including our sub,
our name, and our IAT
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Which is
the sub is who the token refers to.
It's typically like a user ID and the name
would be the real name of that person or
whatever name that they have stored
inside of that target system.
And typically,
this is sent in the authorization
header with a bearer prefix.
So if you've ever sent a bearer token
to an API bearer and then the token,
that's how you would authorize yourself.
The system on the back end would verify
it, and then you'd be off to the races.
You'd be able to access whatever
resources they gave you.
This is different than what's
called an opaque token,
which is literally just like a password.
And in that it is just a random string.
And doesn't necessarily give
you access to anything.
It doesn't have any claims
associated with it.
The powerful thing about JWTs and claims
specifically is that you can issue a token
that says, here's all the things
that you have access to.
And now you don't have to do database
calls down the line to actually make
sure that you have access to
the resources that you have access to.
Here's an example of a claim.
A claim is pretty much any key value
pair that starts with the string.
So you can say that I am part
of the engineering department.
I am an administrator.
Typically, a claim will include your
name as as I mentioned, or the subject,
which is, again, usually just ID.
So this is important,
because the sample project uses JWT,
which I will show you here in a second,
but
I do want to point out a few of
the features inside of ASP.NET Core.
So there is an attribute called
authorize that you can use to protect
access to resources.
A naked authorized attribute will simply
say that you must be authenticated before
you can access these resources.
It doesn't have anything to do
with authorization at this point.
However, you can change your authorized
attribute to include things to say,
in order for this person to be
authorized to use this resource,
we want to make sure that they're
part of the administrator role.
A policy allows you to define a really
nuanced way of saying you must have
all of these different permissions
in order to access this resource.
So you can say that
this policy is defined.
We call it
SeniorEngineersFromEngineeringDepartmentOnly.
And this policy requires that this
person have the senior engineer role,
and they must be part of
the engineering department, okay?
You can also require them to be part of
another role, or have another claim, or
have any other set of claims.
You could even authorize it
down to a specific person or
person with a specific name.
I have to say that while I'm
showing these to you and
that they're really important and
interesting,
and authorization is a really cool
subject, it is a really nuanced subject.
There is a lot to authentication.
The rabbit hole goes very deep, and
authorization is almost certainly
going to be dictated by the terms of
tthe person that you're working for,
or whoever you're building the system for.
Permissions is such a complex,
nuanced issue,
especially when you get into big
enterprises like healthcare.
And it really does become
specific to that business and
specific to that industry to
see how they're implemented.
But these are some of the tools that you
can use kind of out of the box in order to
kind of get what you need from
your authorization system.
So I just wanna kinda point out.
A few of the things that I would consider
if I were making an authorization system.
Or if I was adding an authorization
system to an ASP.NET Core API,
these are decisions
that I do have to make.
First things first,
if I'm using a React app, or
if I'm creating a React app and
I want to have my own login scheme,
I'm probably gonna reach for
something called ASP.NET Core Identity.
Again, security could be a course in and
of itself.
You could do an entire
course simply on security.
But there is a product called
ASP.NET Core Identity.
It buttons really well with EF Core, and
it buttons obviously very
well with ASP.NET Core.
And it basically gives you a lot of
the base structures that you would need.
Like a user table or
a role table that you would need to
actually build an identity system.
And you can use that as your
login scheme for your React app.
If you do that, it used to be back in
the day that you would get a bearer
token from the API, and
then you would set it in local storage.
But nowadays it's best practice to say,
just use cookies, just create a cookie,
give an authorization cookie
back to the browser, and
then just use that to
authenticate to your API.
You could also just use if you
have an integration level API, and
you just wanna give somebody an API
key that's very common as well.
If you use OpenAPI at all or using
Twilio or a number of other services,
typically you're just given one key
that gives you access to the system.
And then you just use that key in order
to perform tasks or make API calls.
That's very common as well.
By making an integration level API,
I'm usually going to reach for
some kind of API key solution.
And it could be something if I'm
building on top of an existing system.
It's something that I might just build
on to it and treat my API key as like
a username and password pair or
something along those lines.
So let me walk through just a little
bit in the final app what I have added.
I actually did go through and
add security to this API.
So if we go to the employee controller,
you'll see that I have added
an authorized attribute up here.
And that's because I did some very
rudimentary JWT token creation.
What I mean by rudimentary is that I went
here and I have a security controller.
And you cannot say that I didn't warn
you that you should not use this code.
This code is for demo purposes only.
I needed a quick way to generate a JWT and
that's what I got right here.
Which is to say that I just pass in
a role inside of my GetTokenRequestBody,
and I generate a Java Web token or
JSON web token from there.
And if you dig into the method, you can
see that I just give it a random ID,
I give it the role that
I've been assigned.
And now I can use this along
with my authorized attribute to
actually restrict access
to certain resources.
You might go back and think about
the use case where we only want certain
people to be able to access the social
security number on an employee.
This is a perfect use case for that.
Is to say that only
a person with this claim or
this level of authorization
can actually get that.
And we'll probably protect that
under a separate endpoint.
I also want to note that
inside of my unit tests,
every time I do _factory.CreateClient,
I now do a separate call to get that
JSON token back from the server.
I make a call to do that here, and
then I add it as part of
the DefaultRequestHeaders.
And what will happen is,
you saw the unit tests pass earlier.
If I don't have that,
if I I comment this out,
you'll see that when I run this endpoint,
when I run this thing,
that I will no longer get back anything.
I will get 401 Unauthorized, and
that's because I haven't identified myself
to the server with a valid JSON web token.
So that's security.
Just a very high-level teaser of some
of the features that are inside of
ASP.NET Core.
I will tell you that I use policies a ton.
I do use claims.
I do use roles, although roles are one
of those particular things that will
differ between really depending on the
company or the system that I'm building.
And I certainly use JSON Web Token.
And I also use a lot
of the identity stuff.
I use ASP.NET Core Identity
quite a bit for projects.
So I recommend you check those out and
that's security.
It's a little demo.
So I would highly recommend
you download this project.
If you haven't downloaded the code
samples yet, download them and
then open up 4-Z-final.
And just start playing
with the JSON Web Token,
start playing with the endpoints and
see if you can add custom policies.
And change your bearer token to actually
allow you to get into those endpoints.